Containing block size? → Use percents.
Viewport size? → Use viewport units: vw, vh, vmin, vmax
Font height? → Use em or rem.
Font pitch? → Use em or ch.
Content size? → Use auto or min-content/max-content.
Combination of the above? → Use the appropriate layout formulas: flex, min-width, max-width, etc.

sans-serif - These are the most popular fonts for Web pages. This means the letters do not have added flourishes, so the typefaces are simpler. Their simplicity makes them easier to display on computer screens as their resolution is much lower than a printed document. It is often suggested you choose a sans-serif font for large blocks of digital text.
Examples: Helvetica, Verdana, Arial, Tahoma
serif - These fonts are the second most popular typefaces. "Serif" refers to the small flourish lines at the edges of letters and symbols. "Serifs" make each character more distinct, making text easier to read in print. This is why these fonts might remind you of a text from a typewriter, or of the fonts you see in printed books, newspapers or magazines. These typefaces can often be used effectively for titles or emphasis.
Examples: Times New Roman, Book Antiqua, Georgia
monospace - These fonts guarantee that all letters have the same fixed width. This is similar to a manual typewriter, or how computer code appears in editors. These fonts were designed for the ease of the technology, not humans, so they should be used sparingly. The most effective time to use these is when showing snippets of code. 
Example: Courier New 
cursive - These fonts mimic human handwriting often by joining letters or having an italic slant. For some languages, these fonts are extra effective such as Arabic. Other than for specific languages, these fonts in English can be rather complex so they are best use extremely sparingly. 
Example: Comic Sans MS
fantasy - This is the most diverse category of fonts and includes all of those that are particularly decorative. These can make really great top headers as they can give your Web page a very distinct visual identity. Rarely will you want to use these for anything other than titles. It is also good to note that few of these are widely supported, so to use these you'll probably want to download them from a font service to make them available for your user.
